Manchester city finished 3rd in the EPL 2024-25, behind Champions Liverpool and Arsenal. It was an underachieving season compared to the previous 4 seasons. The best player would be probably Erling Haaland or Josko Gvardiol, who excelled at their positions respectively. Erling Haaland scored 40 goals in all competitions,22 in the Premier League and 8 in the UEFA champions league alongside other domestic competitions like the FA cup. He also scored 2 goals at the Etihad in the high stakes clash with Real Madrid in the knockout round of the UCL. Haaland was injured for the Santiago Bernabeu leg, which proved to be a bane for City, as they were toothless against the European Champions and ended up losing 6-3 in the tie.The irreplacable. Rodri got injured in a seismic clash with Arsenal early in the season and was out for almost the whole season. It was his absence that impacted Manchester city the most. Club Legend Kevin De Bruyne played his last season for the club and was one of the few performers who gave everything to get them in the Champions league for the next season. Phil Foden regressed considerable from being the Player of the season in the league in 23-24. Alvarez was sorely missed, but City did splurge on the likes Nico Gonzalez, Omar Marmoush and Khusanov etc in the Winter transfer window. It's questionable whether these guys had any tangible impact on the season. Omar Marmoush did score in the Premier League to suggest that he can adapt quite nicely to the hardest league in the world. Kovacic was as good as can be expected, Bernardo recovered quite well in the ending stages. Dias was consistent, Akanji not so much. Ake and Stones were good to tell the truth, bet perennially injured. Walker left for AC Milan in the Wwnter for a loan. Doku was fast and technical, but seriously lacked end product or couldn't even give proper passes to Haaland. Savinho was excellent in work rate and crosses, but he too lacked an end product. Then again, Phil foden did not provide any competition for the right wing spot.

Grealish had a season to forget, as limited playing time and injuries ruined his entire season. Gundogan had a wretched start to the season after being acclimatised to the relatively slower La liga, though he improved well in the latter stages of the season. Kovacic had the responsibility of playing the CDM role in Rodri's absence, and handled it quite good, though he was nowhere near the level of the master. Oscar Bobb too ruined his season with a leg injury in the pre-season. The injured duo did return in the ending stages of the season but had minimal impact. Manchester City lost to Crystal Palace in the FA cup Final, and neither was deemed fit enough to play in that match. Young Claudio Echeverri did get his start for the club in the FA cup final, but couldn't get the equalizer that City needed. Stefan Ortega performed with a consistency that could be expected from a backup keeper at any elite club. Overall, City should be thankful for the performances of Kevin De Bruyne, Haaland and Gvardiol, which helped them to qualify for the Champions League 24-25. Pep would be looking for reinforcements now that Kevin has played his last match for Manchester City.